following down in the sequence in the
shooting menu we have white balance now
I've already gone over that so I'm not
going to go over it again but just like
I'd mentioned before some of the
settings in the menu are accessible out
here on the external buttons and dials
there if you need it though exactly
set picture control now that's a unique
feature to Nikon and basically you need
nikon capture software to override it or
if you want to ever make changes but the
really cool thing about the set picture
control is that the camera has four
different settings in it one for
standard which is going to shoot pretty
much what it sees the others neutral
where it's going to kind of tone things
down less contrast a little bit softer
type images which may be good for
portraits
now vivid that's one that I use
periodically when the lights overcast
and the light is soft and I'm looking
for a little bit more snap to the image
I'll kick it into vivid and another
option is monochrome so you can actually
do black and white imaging within camera
again once you get into picture can into
nikon capture with your RAW files you
can go back and tweak some of those if
you want I prefer to do everything that
I can in camera to get the optimum
resolution quality and less time in
front of the computer these are all over
writable you can use either the default
settings that Nikon offers or you can go
in and adjust them up and down the other
thing that's cool about them is that you
can actually go online and Nikon has
additional picture control settings that
you can download and insert via a card
into the camera they do now manage
picture control is where you do all that
you can tweak the ones that are built in
but if you go to manage picture control
I can actually load the ones that I'd
mentioned from Nikon or if I happen to
have some settings that Brad wants I can
simply put a card in my camera tell it
to load it take the card out hand it to
him and he can load all of those same
settings that I have within his camera
now long as I'm punching buttons on the
back of my camera here
on the option above that set picture
control if you go in and highlight one
of them and then push the cursor to the
right it takes you into the adjustment
so you can adjust the sharpening
contrast brightness saturation and hue
of each setting is there any difference
in doing that there as opposed to doing
that in managed picture control and then
save edit well yes in that if you want
to keep the default ones as they are you
can and if you want to have a second set
where you've tweaked them it might be a
good idea because once you've started
tweaking them you may want to give them
a name that you know this is what I do
under certain circumstances now you can
do it and just leave it and know that
Vivid has been tweaked a little and in
fact even in the standard setting I have
mine set to slightly sharper than normal
because I find I'm always having to do a
little bit of sharpening because the
low-pass filter in the camera has a
softening effect so I've actually gone
into the standard setting and brought my
sharpness up an extra notch I didn't go
ahead and rename that because I've
already known I've done it and that's
the only change I made but thanks for
bringing that up because yes you can
customize either setting or either group
let's skip on down now we've got color
space the camera has two options one is
for srgb and the others for Adobe RGB
we're back again to oh the amount of the
amount of information that the camera is
capturing again if I'm only shooting for
web-based type stuff and later on I'm
going to convert to srgb anyway I'm just
going to let the camera stay in srgb for
my purposes again I'm outputting
outputting to print more often than not
so I set it to Adobe RGB that's just
simply a greater color space so nuances
between colors that the gradations from
tonality it's just much more accurate
you're going to find you don't have
blocked up colors again just the just a
general principle of you can always
start with a lot and work your way down
to a smaller file but you can't start
with that smaller file and
work your way back absolutely great
analogy that's so true
okay now active d-lighting that is we've
talked about how the camera has a
limited capability of capturing tonal
range or a tonal range
so basically cameras can capture about
five stops of light which is wife
traditionally photographers always shot
sunrises and sunsets because the Sun was
low in the sky the light falling on the
subject was very even was the sunrises
and we get more and more contrast
something has to give and oftentimes you
know we're going to have either really
really dark blacks or over blown out
whites active d-lighting
if you have that turned on the camera is
going to automatically try and make it
so that they have you have kind of a
compressed tonal range if you will so
that it all fits within the frame and
once you're in there you have the
ability of setting it anywhere from low
to high or automatically letting the
camera decide so it's just a way of
in-camera increasing your tonal range
again I have other ways of doing that
myself so and I tend to do that type of
work later on in my editing software but
that option is available to you now
vignette control what that allows you to
do is occasionally there will be a lens
or two that the just the way it's
designed and built it doesn't quite
cover the full area of the sensor it
actually gives you the image darkened
corners exactly so and if you've stacked
too many filters on you'll see this as
well well if you find that you've got a
lens that's giving you that kind of
problem you can simply go into the
vignette control and make adjustments if
you're not sure where to set it it's
real easy you just pick one take a
picture start with low just keep moving
on until you see those dark corners
disappear that way when you get back
into the editing software again you
don't have that been getting it doesn't
correct for too many filters it's more
just how much area on the sensor the
lens covers and you want to be aware of
changing that setting whenever you
change lenses because every lens is
different so like right now we both have
24 70s on here we might
be set to you know a normal setting but
then we put a different lens on and it
has more vignetting so we adjust for
that and then switch back to this later
it's going to mess with the right
they'll have the opposite effect so
definitely when you make these conscious
settings in the menu make sure and put a
little mental low so you go back later
and take them out as not when they're
not needed I think though if you shoot
in raw and then take the raw image into
Nikon cat capture and x2 then there's a
setting in there that you can sort of
adjust the vignette control yes yes I
think I think you're absolutely right so
again another great reason for shooting
raw it's not a way to fix your mistakes
but it is a way to make little minor
Corrections as the bestop exactly